---
layout: resource
category: beginners
---
= Frequently Asked Questions

=== Will adding comments, having whitespace, or using longer variable names
make my code run slower?

No. The program will not run slower. Before the computer runs a code
file, the compiler first works with the code. Its job is to take the
code and translate it into a set of instructions that a computer can
read and follow. A compiler will skip through any whitespace and
comments in the code file and create an exe.file. Since, comments and
whitespace are omitted in a .exe file, it does not affect the
performance of the actual program. Technically, it will take a longer
time for the compiler to translate a code file with whitespace and
comments, but compilation time is not as important. Therefore, it is
best for a code file to be well documented with whitespace and comments.

=== My cursor is being weird and appears below the characters.

[.right.text-center]
image::media/image3.png[image,width=262,height=59]

Press kbd:[Insert] on your keyboard.

=== How do I change a floating number into an integer?

[.right.text-center]
image::media/image4.png[image,width=368,height=77]

`(int)` will take the data value of a variable and convert it into an
integer in order to be evaluated. It will *not* change the type of the
variable nor will it overwrite what is stored in the variable. When
converting from a floating number to an integer, the computer will
ignore all decimals in the floating number. (Ex: 4.9 will change to 4)

In general, putting `(<Datatype>)` in front of a variable will change
the type of a data value. This can be used when some functions only
accept certain variable types as inputs.

=== Why does Code::Blocks not ask me to save my files?

Whenever you build your code, your code file will be saved and an .exe
file will be created. Therefore, as long as you continuously build and
run your files, you would be saving them in the process. That being
said, if you want to try something risky in your code file (such as
replacing a lot of lines), make a copy of your code file so that you
will always have a backup.

=== How do I add graphics in C++?

Graphics for C++ is beyond the scope of the beginner course. *Graphics
in C++ is complicated*. If you are very motivated, I would suggest
learning SDL, Here is an online tutorial on
http://lazyfoo.net/SDL_tutorials/[SDL]!

=== Why is it `int main()` and not `void main()`?
